README.md, before:

RBDL - Toolkit
=============

# About

This Application is intended to be the replacement tool for meshup and puppeteer. It is currently in it's development phase! 

The basic functionality of displaying animations like meshup already works!

# Build

Use cmake to build and install

## Dependencies

* RBDL with minimum version 3.0.0
* Eigen3
* Qt5 version >= 5.9
* Qt3D and assimp for model loading

## Building On Ubuntu

Since our research group is mostly using Ubuntu here is a quick one line install command for all
dependencies except RBDL.

`sudo apt install qt5* qt3d* libeigen3-dev libassimp-dev`

# Command Line Options
*rbdl-toolkit* supports command line options. To see all availible options execute ``rbdl-toolkit --help``, plugins may add options
so make sure all plugins you want to load are enabled in the settigs!

Options may be specified multiple times in order to load multiple models for example.

# Plugins

This Application is extendable with qt plugins. The Interface is not yet finished but you can take a look at the toolkit_inteface.h and
the AnimationPlugin to get an idea of how it will work!

# Settings

The behavior of the toolkit can be adjusted by editing the settings of the application. This can be done by
editing the settings file. On linux systems it will be located at ```~/.config/ORB/rbdl-toolkit.conf```.

For example, it is possible to tell *rbdl-toolkit* to use a different seperator when reading csv files, by setting
the csv_seperator parameter to the ascii value of the desired seperator.

# Animation
To load a model animation the AnimationPlugin needs to be active. *rbdl-toolkit* does not support parsing the custom
file header format used by Meshup. The first column of the csv should always represent the time, and the amount of following columns need
to match the dof of your model!

# Rendering

In order to be enable rendering to images and videos you will need to enable building the optional plugins by 
setting the cmake option `TOOLKIT_BUILD_OPTIONAL_PLUGINS` to `ON`. This will add compilation of the render plugin
which has more dependencies such as `libffmpeg`.

# Extras
In the extra folders are some python skripts that might be usefull when converting models from meshup to
rbdl-toolkit.

Commit message:

Added Documentation on how to build with qt5.13 manually

README.md, after:

RBDL - Toolkit
=============

# About

This Application is intended to be the replacement tool for meshup and puppeteer. It is currently in it's development phase! 

The basic functionality of displaying animations like meshup already works!

# Build

Use cmake to build and install

## Dependencies

* RBDL with minimum version 3.0.0
* Eigen3
* Qt5 version >= 5.13
* Qt3D and assimp for model loading

## Building On Ubuntu

**Warning** *rbdl-toolkit* builds with qt5.9 but the rendering plugin will not work du to bugs in qt.

Since our research group is mostly using Ubuntu here is a quick one line install command for all
dependencies except RBDL.

`sudo apt install qt5* qt3d* libeigen3-dev libassimp-dev`

Ubuntu installs qt5.9 per default and rbdl-toolkit will work with the exception of the rendering plugin.
In order use the rendering plugin you will have to install qt your self. To do this download the open
source version of qt from the website and follow the installation instructions. Make sure to install at 
minimum version *5.13*!

Afterwards build *rbdl-toolkit* with cmake and adding the CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH variable set to 
your [QT_INSTALL_DIR]/[QT_VERSION]/[COMPILER]/lib/cmake. 
For me that looked like this:

```code
cmake -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=~/Qt5.13/5.13.2/gcc_64/lib/cmake ..
make
```

# Command Line Options

*rbdl-toolkit* supports command line options. To see all availible options execute ``rbdl-toolkit --help``, plugins may add options
so make sure all plugins you want to load are enabled in the settigs!

Options may be specified multiple times in order to load multiple models for example.

# Plugins

This Application is extendable with qt plugins. The Interface is not yet finished but you can take a look at the toolkit_inteface.h and
the AnimationPlugin to get an idea of how it will work!

# Settings

The behavior of the toolkit can be adjusted by editing the settings of the application. This can be done by
editing the settings file. On linux systems it will be located at ```~/.config/ORB/rbdl-toolkit.conf```.

For example, it is possible to tell *rbdl-toolkit* to use a different seperator when reading csv files, by setting
the csv_seperator parameter to the ascii value of the desired seperator.

# Animation
To load a model animation the AnimationPlugin needs to be active. *rbdl-toolkit* does not support parsing the custom
file header format used by Meshup. The first column of the csv should always represent the time, and the amount of following columns need
to match the dof of your model!

# Rendering

In order to be enable rendering to images and videos you will need to enable building the optional plugins by 
setting the cmake option `TOOLKIT_BUILD_OPTIONAL_PLUGINS` to `ON`. This will add compilation of the render plugin
which has more dependencies such as `libffmpeg`.

# Extras
In the extra folders are some python skripts that might be usefull when converting models from meshup to
rbdl-toolkit.
